---
description: This page describes how the project structure is setup
---

# Project Structure

## File Structure

These sections explain the file structure for the whole project,

### Root Directory

#### Client

The client directory contains the entirety of the frontend application. This means the ReactJS code with different sections designed, for example,

* `public` the directory contains information for the basic React application
* `src` contains the pages, components, and assets used for the pages
  * `API` contains the API object, which can send GET and POST requests to the backend specified via a .env file located under `client`
  * `assets` contains the individual pages as directories to segregate the different mutlimedia files
  * `components` also contains segregation. Each folder inside `components` is marked with the page component that uses those component. Each folder must have a `MainContent.js` that arranges and organizes all the other components within the folder, if they exist. Errors thrown here render an error page on the web browser tab
  * `pages` contain single page views for a specified URL
  * `services` contains the client side logic for dealing and handling the payloads. The error messages that occur here are displayed within the Chrome Dev Tool's console.
  * `styles` is also separated into folders, each folder contains individual files for each component used respectively under `components`, and each file is suffixed with `.module.css` to make sure that styling is only applied to the component it is used in
  * `App.js` contains the routing for the individual pages. Here, there is slight logic on how to deal with logged in and logged out user, and specifies the routes that will be visited when a specific URL is hit
  * `index.js` simply imports the `App` component from `App.js` with `React.StrictMode`
  * `serviceWorker.js` registers a new worker ( to be explained because this code came with ReactJS - I'm still not sure what this does exactly )
  * `setupTests.js`, just importing the Jest libary for testing.
* `.eslintignore`, ignore running lint on some files
* `.eslintrc.js`, exports an object that configures the ES Lint run before each commit is performed
* `Dockerfile`, Docker file to build the `client` container
* `package.json`, contains the respective dependencies
* `package-lock.json`, lock file for package.json
* `README.md`, basic documentation generated by ReactJS

#### Data

This folder is reserved space to allow volume mapping within the containers. Do not alter this or modify this. On forcefully removing this location, please build the containers again to safely allow volume mapping.

#### Docs

Contains the `Software Requirement Specification` (SRS) and `Software Development Specification` (SDS) written for the project. Also contains some basic images for this README.md

#### Server

Contains the entirety of the backend code, written in ExpressJS. The explanations for the subdirectory are as follows,

* `config`, we initially created this ... but really didn't do anything with it. There's an empty `index.js` for now. Future expansion is most probably expected
* `controllers`, requests after being properly routed, are sent to their respective controller functions here. The functions specified for each route really just cares about the
* `db`, contains the connector bindings for the databases used. Each folder is separately for each database with it's respective connector
* `middleware`, contains some middleware function to check for correct login, and for authenticating the user
* `models`, the classes and views created for Mongoose and MySQL2 to provide an easy way of dealing with the connectors and saving information
* `routes`, specifies the endpoints to hit for GET and POST requests
* `services`, here, queries are sent to the underlying databases in containers to perform CRUD operations
* `tests`, any tests needed should be sent here
* `www`, making sure the PORT is open

#### Web Server

The web server acts as an intermediary between the client side container and the backend container by mounting the client at `/`, and backend at `/api/`.

The file structure is as follows,

* `nginx.conf`, basic NGINX configuration
* `Dockerfile`, sets up the docker container for Nginx
* `conf.d/default.conf`, mounting location for `/api/`
